DBCON-187: Database Connector - Example/Userdefined data type (#1113)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: db/1.8/modules/ROOT/pages/database-connector-examples.adoc

= Database Examples
:page-aliases: connectors::db/db-connector-query.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-insert-update-delete.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-sp.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-ddl.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-bulk-ops-ref.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-datatypes-ref.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-transactions-ref.adoc, connectors::db/db-connector-execute-script-ref.adoc, connectors::db/database-connector-examples.adoc

> Anypoint Connector for Database (Database Connector) examples help you to:

Reviewer: This is a very informative intro, which is nice. 

The sentences that start "Additionally, configure..." don't flow well from the first sentences. Kim will probably have suggestions for this text.

> 

Reviewer 2: Does the following list chronologically match the order of the items mentioned in the previous sentence?
I was unable to match each of the above with a bullet item because the two do not seem to use the same terminology (I might not be able to make the connection between different terms meaning the same thing or group of things).

* <<configure-database-connection,Configure a Database Connection>> +

> Connect to the most popular databases such as Derby, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, and a generic database. Additionally, configure the connector to connect to a global data source, set a JDBC driver, configure connection pooling, and connection to an Oracle database with TNS.

Reviewer: The "Additionally, configure..." text doesn't flow well from the previous sentence. I suggest:  "Also helps you..." for the second sentences, where relevant.

> Connect to the most popular databases such as Derby, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, and a generic database. Additionally, configure the connector to connect to a global data source, set a JDBC driver, configure connection pooling, and connection to an Oracle database with TNS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connect to both popular databases, such as Derby, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle, and a generic database. Additionally, configure the connector to connect to a global data source, set a JDBC driver, configure connection pooling, and connect to an Oracle database with TNS.
```

Reviewer 2: Will your audience know what TNS stands for?
Imma' add it to the Term Presentation list....

Reviewer 2: Also, note that Derby is not in the list of popular databases in the topic about this, and the other three are mentioned in a different order than here.

Maybe we don't need to name these here, since they are named in the actual topic, but rather say... 

Connect to both popular branded and generic databases.

* <<query-database,Query a Database>> +
Configure the *Select* operation to query data from a database.

> * <<insert-update-delete,Insert, Update, and Delete Data with the Database Connector>> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* <<insert-update-delete,Insert, Update, and Delete Data with Database Connector>> +
```

Configure the *Insert*, *Update* and *Delete* operations to manage data.
* <<execute-stored-procedures,Execute Stored Procedures>> +
Configure the *Stored Procedure* operation to combine `input`, `output`, and `input-output` parameters. Additionally, configure dates on stored procedures.

> * xref:database-connector-udt-stored-procedure.adoc[Call Oracle Stored Procedure with UDTs] +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:database-connector-udt-stored-procedure.adoc[Call an Oracle Stored Procedure That Uses UDTs] +
```

> Configure the *Stored procedure* operation to call an Oracle database stored procedure that uses UDTs for its input and output parameters. Additionally, the example shows how to use `createStruct` and `createArray` DataWeave functions to map application data to your custom types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the *Stored procedure* operation to call an Oracle database stored procedure that uses UDTs for its input and output parameters. Additionally, use `createStruct` and `createArray` DataWeave functions to map application data to your custom types.
```

* <<execute-ddl-statements,Execute DDL Statements>> +
Configure the *Execute DDL* operation to execute DDL statements that create or modify data within tables or other data structures.
* <<execute-bulk-operations,Execute Bulk Operations>> +

> Configure the *Bulk insert*, *Bulk update* and *Bulk delete* operations to use them in cases where each input parameter can take only one value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure the *Bulk insert*, *Bulk update*, and *Bulk delete* operations for use when each input parameter can take only one value.
```

* <<execute-script,Execute Script Reference>> +

> Configure the *Execute script* operation to execute a script of random length as a single statement.

Reviewer 2: Is "of random length" necessary? Could this be...:
```suggestion
Configure the *Execute script* operation to execute a script as a single statement.
```
OR
```suggestion
Configure the *Execute script* operation to execute a script of any length as a single statement.
```

* <<data-types,Define Custom Data Types>> +

> Define custom data types that you can use when connected to a particular connection provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Define custom data types to use when connected to a particular connection provider.
```

* <<database-transactions,Execute Database Transactions>> +
Execute database operations in the context of a transaction.

[[configure-database-connection]]
== Configure a Database Connection

> Database Connector can connect to any database for which a JDBC driver is available. To make it easier to connect to the most popular databases (such as MySQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server), the connector includes a series of different connection types.

Reviewer 2: "a series of types"? or just "types"?
Do we mean several connection types tailored to branded databases?

Reviewer 2: One question for the Connector Team re. the template: do we want to use imperative (do this) titles for topics that do not include steps? We typically avoid this.
So "Configure <a thing>" would become "<thing> Configuration", "Execute" would become "Execution," and so on.

`jdbc:oracle:thin:${oracle.user}/${oracle.password}@(DESCRIPTION=(ENABLE=BROKEN)(FAILOVER=ON)(ADDRESS_LIST=(ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=${oracle.host1})(PORT=${oracle.port}))(ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=${oracle.host2})(PORT=${oracle.port}))(CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME=${oracle.service})))`

[[query-database]]
== Query a Database

> When you configure a database operation using the Database Connector, there are several ways to add variable values to the SQL statement you execute in the database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you configure a database operation using Database Connector, there are several ways to add variable values to the SQL statement you execute in the database.
```

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY remove "the" before the abbreviated proper noun Database Connector.
Use "the" only when you refer to it in general as "the connector."
See style ref., connector names

</db:select>
----

[[insert-update-delete]]

> == Insert, Update, and Delete Data with the Database Connector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Insert, Update, and Delete Data with Database Connector
```

Reviewer 2: ...but do we need "with Database Connector"? Aren't ALL these subtopics about performing a task with the connector?
Review and make these peer titles parallel: all tasks, all either specifying the connector or not (if they are all in ref. to the connector).

> The Database Connector supports `insert`, `update`, and `delete` operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Database Connector supports `insert`, `update`, and `delete` operations.
```

In both cases, whenever an error occurs you can examine your application logs to see which caused the failure. When this occurs a single exception is thrown describing what went wrong.

[[data-types]]

> == Database Connector Data Types Reference

Reviewer 2: "reference" makes me expect a table or list rather than examples; should the title use "Examples" instead?

Reviewer 2: Not a user action, like the peer topics?
See earlier question about using action verbs (imperatives) for topics without steps/that are not tasks.

</db:config>
----

[[database-transactions]]

> == Database Transactions

Reviewer 2: Not a user action? Begins with "execute"....
